hey this is Prestel Walker and you're
watching mind your decisions this
problem appeared on a math exam in India
for thirteen year olds find the sum of
all corner angles
of a five-pointed regular star that is
find the sum of a B C D and E I think
Nikhil patro for suggesting this problem
you have to prove your answer as a bonus
you can find the sum of all corner
angles of any five pointed star can you
figure it out give this problem a try
and when you're ready keep watching the
video for a solution
so how can we solve this problem I'm
first going to show you a method on how
you can get some intuition of the answer
it doesn't involve any mathematical
calculation and you can do this for any
kind of problem that asks for this value
where you need the sum of angles so
here's how you can intuitively get that
the answer is 180 degrees start by
placing an arrow going along one side of
this diagram if you're doing this in
practice
you can use a pencil or pen but make
sure it's pointing in one direction so
that you know the orientation of this
object will now trace this object along
the angles of this shape so just to keep
track of everything the arrow started
going from angle D to a going up like
this so now let's see what happens as we
rotate this object through each of these
angles we'll first rotate this object
through the angle a now we'll rotate it
through angle C so this arrow has moved
a total of a plus C degrees will now
move it along a degrees then we'll move
it along B degrees and finally we'll
move it along D degrees so now let's
compare the start and the end well the
arrow is in the same place except it's
flipped upside down so after the angle
rotation of all of these corner angles
the arrow rotates 180 degrees hence the
sum of all these angles is 180 degrees
so while this doesn't prove the answer
it does give us some idea of what the
answer will be
and from there you might think that well
180 degrees is half of a circle or 180
degrees is equal to the sum of the
angles in a triangle and both of these
insights can help us prove the answer is
180 degrees so first let's prove that
the answer is 180 degrees for a regular
star Pentagon
because of symmetry we know that the
shape can be inscribed in a circle
furthermore in a circle an inscribed
angle is equal to half of the angle of
the arc it subtends
so this angle a will subdue our that's
twice as large so this arc will have a
measure of two a similarly this arc will
have a measure of to be here we have to
see here we have two D and finally we
have 2 e since a circle measures 360
degrees the sum of all of these arcs
which will be 2a plus 2b plus 2 C plus 2
D plus 2 e will equal 360 degrees now we
just divide by 2 to get the answer a
plus B plus C plus D plus e will equal
180 degrees so this is a valid proof for
a regular star Pentagon but it's not
necessarily true for any Pentagon
because it may not be able to be
inscribed in a circle so how can we
prove the more general result well
here's how we can prove it for any star
Pentagon take a look at this triangle
which involves the angles B and D the
exterior angle to this triangle is equal
to B plus D that'll be this angle right
here now take a look at this triangle
which has the angles a plus C by similar
logic the exterior angle to this
triangle is equal to C plus E that'll be
this angle right here so now take a look
at this top triangle
it has angles a B plus D and C plus E so
this will be equal to a plus B plus C
plus D plus E because it has one copy of
each letter finally since the sum of
angles in a triangle is equal to 180
degrees we're done the sum of the angles
in this is a plus B plus C plus D plus E
and it's equal to 180 degrees amazing
now there are many other ways that you
can prove this result and I've provided
links to
some of them in the video description I
encourage you if you have a creator
proof you can make a video please don't
email me I actually don't have time to
review all the great proofs that people
send me even though I do appreciate them
I may not be able to send a reply did
you figure out this problem and what
method did you use thanks for watching
these math videos which can be watched
for free on YouTube inspire and build
confidence for people around the world
and they already have over 800 million
views let's share the beauty of
mathematics with your help we can map
the world a better place please
subscribe for free to get the newest
videos watch and share all the mind your
decisions videos email me a puzzle or
mat topic presh and mind your decision
calm and if you so choose you can check
out my books which are listed in the
video description and you can support me
on patreon for exclusive rewards thanks
for watching and thanks for your support